[en] KEP-5075: DRA Consumable Capacity Blog (#51481)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/XX-dra-consumable-capacity.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "DRA Consumable Capacity"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes v1.34: DRA Consumable Capacity"
```

draft: true # will be changed to date: YYYY-MM-DD before publication

> slug: dra-consumable-capacity # optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-consumable-capacity # optional
```

Together with the `DRAResourceClaimDeviceStatus` feature, we can expose additional device-specific information beyond the `ShareID`. One particularly useful use case is for virtual networks, where we can include the assigned IP address in the status. This is valuable for both network service operations and troubleshooting.

You can find more information by watching our recording at: [KubeCon Japan 2025 - Reimagining Cloud Native Networks: The Critical Role of DRA](https://sched.co/1x71v).

## 📣 Call to Action
* **Check out the [CNI DRA Driver project](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver)** for an example of DRA integration in Kubernetes networking. Try integrating with network resources like `macvlan`, `ipvlan`, or smart NICs.
* Start enabling the `DRAConsumableCapacity` feature gate and experimenting with virtualized or partitionable devices. Run your workloads with **consumable capacity** (e.g., fractional bandwidth or memory).

>   - Report your findings:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Report your findings on [Slack (#wg-device-management)](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0409NGC1TK) or in the [KEP-5075](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5075):
```

Author: @LionelJouin Applied! Thank you :)

slug: kubernetes-v1-34-dra-consumable-capacity # optional
author: >
  Sunyanan Choochotkaew (IBM),
  Lionel Jouin (Ericsson Software Technology)
  John Belamaric (Google)
---

# Kubernetes v1.34: DRA Consumable Capacity

Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) is a Kubernetes API for managing scarce resources across Pods and containers.
It enables flexible resource requests, going beyond simply allocating *N* number of device to support more granular usage scenarios.
With DRA, users can request specific types of devices based on their attributes, define custom configurations tailored to their workloads, and even share the same resource among multiple containers or Pods.

In this blog, we focus on the device sharing feature and dive into a new capability introduced in Kubernetes 1.34: `DRAConsumableCapacity`, which extends DRA to support finer-grained device sharing.

## Background: Device Sharing via ResourceClaims

From the beginning, DRA introduced the ability for multiple Pods to share a device by referencing the same ResourceClaim.
This design decouples resource allocation from specific hardware, allowing for more dynamic and reusable provisioning of devices.

> In Kubernetes 1.33, the Partitionable Devices feature added support for resource drivers to advertise slices of a device that are available—rather than exposing the entire device as an all-or-nothing resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes 1.33, the Partitionable Devices feature added support for resource drivers to advertise slices of a device that are available, rather than exposing the entire device as an all-or-nothing resource.
```

This enabled Kubernetes to model shareable hardware more accurately.

But there was still a missing piece: it doesn't yet support scenarios

> where the device driver manages fine-grained, dynamic portions of a device resource—like network bandwidth—based on user demand,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
where the device driver manages fine-grained, dynamic portions of a device resource — like network bandwidth — based on user demand,
```

or to share those resources independently of ResourceClaims, which are restricted by their spec and namespace.

That’s where the DRAConsumableCapacity feature comes in.

## 🎯 What Does the DRAConsumableCapacity Feature Unlock?

### Device sharing across multiple ResourceClaims or DeviceRequests

> With the DRAConsumableCapacity feature, resource drivers can now support sharing the same device—or even a slice of a device—across multiple ResourceClaims or across multiple DeviceRequests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the DRAConsumableCapacity feature, resource drivers can now support sharing the same device — or even a slice of a device — across multiple ResourceClaims or across multiple DeviceRequests.
```

> This means that Pods from different namespaces can simultaneously share the same device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This means that Pods from different namespaces can simultaneously share the same device, if
permitted and supported by the specific DRA driver.
```

### Device resource allocation

> The DRAConsumableCapacity feature extends the allocation algorithm in the scheduler to support allocating a portion of a device's resources as defined in the `capacity` field,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The DRAConsumableCapacity feature extends the allocation algorithm in the scheduler to support allocating a portion of a device's resources as defined in the `capacity` field. The scheduler will make sure
```

> and to ensure that the total allocated capacity across all consumers **never exceeds the device’s total capacity**, even when shared across multiple ResourceClaims or DeviceRequests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that the total allocated capacity across all consumers **never exceeds the device’s total capacity**, even when shared across multiple ResourceClaims or DeviceRequests. This is very similar to the way the scheduler allows Pods and containers to share allocatable resources on Nodes; in this case, it allows them to share allocatable (consumable) resources on Devices.
```

> This feature expands support for scenarios where the device driver is able to manage resources *within* a device on a per-process basis—for example,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature expands support for scenarios where the device driver is able to manage resources *within* a device on a per-process basis — for example,
```

allocating a specific amount of memory (e.g., 8 GiB) from a virtual GPU
or setting bandwidth limits on virtual network interfaces allocated to specific Pods. This aims to provide safe and efficient resource sharing.

### DistinctAttribute constraint

> In addition to the existing `MatchAttribute` constraint, this feature introduces a new constraint: `DistinctAttribute`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature also introduces a new constraint: `DistinctAttribute`, which is the compliment of the existing  `MatchAttribute` constraint.
```

Author: Updated! Thank you :)

> The primary goal of `DistinctAttribute` is to **prevent the same device from being allocated multiple times within a single `ResourceClaim`**. This ensures that each allocation refers to a distinct resource, even if they belong to the same device class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The primary goal of `DistinctAttribute` is to **prevent the same underlying device from being allocated multiple times within a single `ResourceClaim`**, which could happen since we are allocating shares (or subsets) of devices. This constraint ensures that each allocation refers to a distinct resource, even if they belong to the same device class.
```

It is useful for use cases such as allocating **network devices connecting to different subnets** to expand coverage or provide redundancy across failure domains.

## 🌟 How to use?

`DRAConsumableCapacity` is introduced as an alpha feature in Kubernetes 1.34. The [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `DRAConsumableCapacity` must be enabled in kubelet, kube-apiserver, and kube-scheduler.

```bash
--feature-gates=...,DRAConsumableCapacity=true
```

### As a DRA driver developer

> As a DRA driver developer, you can make a `Device` within a `ResourceSlice` allocatable to multiple `ResourceClaims` or `DeviceRequests` by setting `AllowMultipleAllocations` to a pointer to the `true` value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a DRA driver developer, you can make a `Device` within a `ResourceSlice` allocatable to multiple `ResourceClaims` or `DeviceRequests` by setting `AllowMultipleAllocations` to `true`.
```

I think that's semantically clearer (less distracting), and the code snippet still shows the `ptr` as it should.

One particularly useful use case is for virtual networks, where we can include the assigned IP address in the status.
This is valuable for both network service operations and troubleshooting.

You can find more information by watching our recording at: [KubeCon Japan 2025 - Reimagining Cloud Native Networks: The Critical Role of DRA](https://sched.co/1x71v).

## 📣 Call to Action
* **Check out the [CNI DRA Driver project](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver)** for an example of DRA integration in Kubernetes networking. Try integrating with network resources like `macvlan`, `ipvlan`, or smart NICs.
* Start enabling the `DRAConsumableCapacity` feature gate and experimenting with virtualized or partitionable devices. Run your workloads with **consumable capacity** (e.g., fractional bandwidth or memory).
  - Report your findings on [Slack (#wg-device-management)](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0409NGC1TK) or in the [KEP-5075](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5075):
    - ✅ What worked well?
    - ⚠️ What didn’t?

---

## Conclusion

> `DRAConsumableCapacity` enhances the device sharing capability of DRA by unlocking the restriction

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`DRAConsumableCapacity` enhances the device sharing capability of DRA by
```

> and allowing device sharing across namespaces, across claims, and tailored to each Pod’s actual needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
allowing device sharing across namespaces, across claims, and tailored to each Pod’s actual needs.
```

## Background: Device Sharing via ResourceClaims

From the beginning, DRA introduced the ability for multiple Pods to share a device by referencing the same ResourceClaim.
This design decouples resource allocation from specific hardware, allowing for more dynamic and reusable provisioning of devices.

In Kubernetes 1.33, the Partitionable Devices feature added support for resource drivers to advertise slices of a device that are available, rather than exposing the entire device as an all-or-nothing resource.
This enabled Kubernetes to model shareable hardware more accurately.

But there was still a missing piece: it doesn't yet support scenarios
where the device driver manages fine-grained, dynamic portions of a device resource — like network bandwidth — based on user demand,
or to share those resources independently of ResourceClaims, which are restricted by their spec and namespace.

That’s where the DRAConsumableCapacity feature comes in.

## 🎯 What Does the DRAConsumableCapacity Feature Unlock?

> 

Author: I'm not sure I understand your suggestion correctly but I added your suggestion in the section. 
Is there any expected content to be added?

### DistinctAttribute constraint

This feature also introduces a new constraint: `DistinctAttribute`, which is the complement of the existing  `MatchAttribute` constraint.

The primary goal of `DistinctAttribute` is to **prevent the same underlying device from being allocated multiple times within a single `ResourceClaim`**, which could happen since we are allocating shares (or subsets) of devices.
This constraint ensures that each allocation refers to a distinct resource, even if they belong to the same device class.

It is useful for use cases such as allocating **network devices connecting to different subnets** to expand coverage or provide redundancy across failure domains.

## 🌟 How to use?

`DRAConsumableCapacity` is introduced as an alpha feature in Kubernetes 1.34. The [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `DRAConsumableCapacity` must be enabled in kubelet, kube-apiserver, and kube-scheduler.

```bash
--feature-gates=...,DRAConsumableCapacity=true
```

### As a DRA driver developer

> As a DRA driver developer, you can make a `Device` within a `ResourceSlice` allocatable to multiple `ResourceClaims` or `DeviceRequests` by setting `AllowMultipleAllocations` to `true`.

Author: @lmktfy @LionelJouin  Could you please advise `device.requests` or `DeviceRequests` is better in this context?

      exactly:
      - deviceClassName: resource.example.com
        capacity:
          requests: # for resources which must be provided by those devices
            memory: 10Gi
```

This configuration ensures that the requested device can provide at least 10Gi of `memory`.

Notably that any `resource.example.com` device that has at least 10Gi memory can be allocated.
If a device that does not support multiple allocations is chosen, the allocation would consume the entire device.
To filter only devices that support multiple allocations, you can define a selector like this:

```yaml
selectors:
  - cel:
      expression: |-
        device.allowMultipleAllocations == true
```

## Integration with Device Status Feature

In device sharing, general device information is provided through the resource slice.
However, some details are set dynamically after allocation. These can be conveyed using the [DRAResourceClaimDeviceStatus](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#resourceclaim-device-status) feature. 

Together with the `DRAResourceClaimDeviceStatus` feature, we can expose additional device-specific information beyond the `ShareID`.

> One particularly useful use case is for virtual networks, where we can include the assigned IP address in the status.

Author: @LionelJouin Could you please share a reason to not adding `(es)`?

This is valuable for both network service operations and troubleshooting.

You can find more information by watching our recording at: [KubeCon Japan 2025 - Reimagining Cloud Native Networks: The Critical Role of DRA](https://sched.co/1x71v).

## 📣 Call to Action
* **Check out the [CNI DRA Driver project](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cni-dra-driver)** for an example of DRA integration in Kubernetes networking. Try integrating with network resources like `macvlan`, `ipvlan`, or smart NICs.

> * Start enabling the `DRAConsumableCapacity` feature gate and experimenting with virtualized or partitionable devices. Run your workloads with **consumable capacity** (e.g., fractional bandwidth or memory).

Author: @lmktfy @LionelJouin Could you please advise *consumable capacity* or **consumable capacity**  should be used here?

  - Report your findings on [Slack (#wg-device-management)](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0409NGC1TK) or in the [KEP-5075](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5075):
    - ✅ What worked well?
    - ⚠️ What didn’t?

---

## Conclusion

> `DRAConsumableCapacity` enhances the device sharing capability of DRA by allowing device sharing across namespaces, across claims, and tailored to each Pod’s actual needs.

Author: @lmktfy Was the colon after 'effective device sharing' added intentionally?

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.34: DRA Consumable Capacity"
draft: true # will be changed to date: YYYY-MM-DD before publication
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-dra-consumable-capacity # optional
author: >
  Sunyanan Choochotkaew (IBM),
  Lionel Jouin (Ericsson Software Technology)
  John Belamaric (Google)
---

Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) is a Kubernetes API for managing scarce resources across Pods and containers.
It enables flexible resource requests, going beyond simply allocating *N* number of devices to support more granular usage scenarios.
With DRA, users can request specific types of devices based on their attributes, define custom configurations tailored to their workloads, and even share the same resource among multiple containers or Pods.

> In this blog, we focus on the device sharing feature and dive into a new capability introduced in Kubernetes 1.34: `DRAConsumableCapacity`, which extends DRA to support finer-grained device sharing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this blog, we focus on the device sharing feature and dive into a new capability introduced in Kubernetes 1.34: _DRA consumable capacity_,
which extends DRA to support finer-grained device sharing.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "DRA Consumable Capacity"

> date: XX

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
draft: true
```
See the blog article authoring guidelines.

Author: @lmktfy Thank you and apologize for this miss. I've made the update.
